# PSee-A-simple-causal-network-graph-for-data-visualization
## Team
Jenny M. Michlich 
& Carlo Tak
## Team Biographies
Jenny M. Michlich is a graduate student in the School of Complex Adaptive Systems at Arizona State University, where they are currently taking coursework towards a Master of Science in Complex Systems. Their applied project in this program will focus on building a multidimensional network graph to better understand the role of physiological signaling for intentional communication across vertebrate species. Previously, Jenny completed a Master of Arts in the Department of Human Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University, where they were performing research exploring the relationship between plasticity and adaptation in the structure and function of circuits for the control of facial gestures and vocalization under domestication. They are interested in neuroethology and understanding the sensory systems of nonhuman animals for communication. Broadly, They are interested in continuities between human and nonhuman animal systems of communication, along with the physiological and structural features that support these systems. More recently, they have started to bridge the gap between production and perception, with research focusing on the facial perception of nonhuman animals as it relates to anthropomorphism and anthropodenialism.

## Project Description:
Murmurings of the replication crisis have been ongoing since the early years of my first undergraduate experience, almost 20 years ago, but this conversation has moved from small meetings in university hallways to public discourse in the academic literature. Science, broadly, has been called out by fellow scholars about the lack of reproducibility of major findings from very prominent scholars and labs to smaller labs meeting problems with full force (Shrout & Rogers, 2018). Effective protocols for coding are one solution to this emerging puzzle for both scientists and humanists alike (Azevedo et al., 2025). Metascience is another emerging field that hopes to address some of these issues (Peterson & Panofsky, 2023). One of our proposals involves providing and developing some simple tools for scientists to move out of correlative studies to studies of modeled causation. Sprites et al., 2000 produced a simple algorithm that has been further expanded for studies in real-world data sets; called the PC algorithm, its implementation aims to develop causal and multilevel network graphs that propose causal mechanisms for complicated and complex systems, when there is more than two variables involved. In this implementation, we hope to model two-variable, three-variable, and four-variable systems while producing publication-ready network graphs that host two levels of organization within the modeled system, as proposed in Gebharter, 2017.

## References
1. Shrout, P. E., & Rodgers, J. L. (2018). Psychology, science, and knowledge construction: Broadening perspectives from the replication crisis. Annual review of psychology, 69(1), 487-510.
2. Azevedo, I., Vasconcelos, A. P., Teixeira, E., & Soares, S. (2025, September). Survey-Based Insights into the Replication Crisis and the 3R in Software Engineering. In Simpósio Brasileiro de Engenharia de Software (SBES) (pp. 405-415). SBC.
3. Peterson, D., & Panofsky, A. (2023). Metascience as a scientific social movement. Minerva, 61(2), 147-174.
4. Causation, Prediction, and Search P. Spirtes, C. Glymour, and R. Scheines (2nd edition, MIT Press, 2000)
5. Gebharter, A. Uncovering constitutive relevance relations in mechanisms. Philos Stud 174, 2645–2666 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11098-016-0803-3

